<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>image-performance_draft-3-9</title>
		<link href="css/aba-image_performance.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="image-performance_draft-3-9" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer069">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-6" class="bm_title"><a id="_idTextAnchor015"></a>Acknowledgments</h1>
			<p class="BodyFirstParagraph">I can’t believe they let me do t<span class="NoBreak">his</span><span class="NoBreak"> </span><span class="NoBreak"><em class="Emphasis">again</em></span><span class="NoBreak">.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">The “they” in question is, of course, the team at A Book Apart. They’re a “they” of incredible talent, patience, and—apart from <em class="Emphasis">me</em>, the one glaring blemish on their otherwise impeccable record—taste in authors. Katel, Jeffrey, and Jason: thank you so, so much for this opportunity, and for so ma<span class="NoBreak">ny</span><span class="NoBreak"> others.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Lisa Maria Martin, my editor: thank you for so diligently holding me to account for deadlines. Lisa Maria Martin, my girlfriend: thank you for encouraging me to blow off those deadlines every once in a while. As always, and as in all things: I couldn’t do it wi<span class="NoBreak">thout</span><span class="NoBreak"> you.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Finally, to<span class="NoBreak"> the</span><span class="NoBreak"> RICG:</span></p>
			<p class="Body">To Eric Portis, my technical editor, whose writing on the subject of responsive images has always far eclipse<span class="NoBreak">d my own. </span></p>
			<p class="Body">To Yoav Weiss and Marcos Caceres, who did all the heavy lifting from the v<span class="NoBreak">ery</span><span class="NoBreak"> start.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">To every one of you—every member of the nebulous, pirate-radio web standards group who managed to change the way the web is built through sheer<span class="NoBreak"> dete</span><span class="NoBreak">rmination.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">And to you, reader, for fighting the g<span class="NoBreak">ood</span><span class="NoBreak"> fight.</span></p>
			<p class="Body"><span class="NoBreak">Thank</span><span class="NoBreak"> you.</span></p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
