<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>image-performance_draft-3-8</title>
		<link href="css/aba-image_performance.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="image-performance_draft-3-8" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer068">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-5" class="bm_title"><a id="_idTextAnchor014"></a>Conclusion</h1>
			<p class="BodyFirstParagraph">In a way, this book was to be my images-on-the-web swan song. The RICG’s work on images has long since concluded, its members scattering to work on browsers and CDNs and CMSes, to write guides and tutorials, to give talks and lead workshops. Together, they’re pushing the web toward something better, faster, and more inclusive, whether they’re building the tools or teaching others how to<span class="NoBreak"> use</span><span class="NoBreak"> them.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">I had this conclusion all mapped out in my head, because the contents of it were, sadly, already second nature. I was going to wrap things up the way I’ve concluded so many talks and blog posts about how images work on the web: with a plea. Try harder; do better. Websites keep getting larger, month after month, and image transfers are still responsible for most of the damage. The web is becoming more exclusive—something for the few, for those with the same browsing privilege as the people building it. We developers are <em class="Emphasis">severing</em> peoples’ connections to the web, rather than helping to build them. I’d sound the call-to-arms: we have to try harder. We have the tools; we need to use them. We can do better. We <em class="Emphasis">have</em> to do better. Can’t you see that we’<span class="NoBreak">re</span><span class="NoBreak"> </span><span class="NoBreak"><em class="Emphasis">losing</em></span><span class="NoBreak">?</span></p>
			<p class="Body">But, in reviewing <a href="http://bkaprt.com/ip/03-01/"><span class="URL">statistics from HTTP Archive</span></a>, I saw something I’ve never seen before: during the course of 2018, the median image transfer size has been declining month<span class="NoBreak"> to</span><span class="NoBreak"> month.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">We <em class="Emphasis">are</em> doin<span class="NoBreak">g better. </span></p>
			<p class="Body">The momentum, finally, might just be on our side, thanks to countless hours of work by countless developers, designers, educators, and writers—and thanks to you. You’re someone who believes that anything worth doing is worth doing well. You’re someone who doesn’t take anything for granted—not even a topic as “simple” as putting images o<span class="NoBreak">n the</span><span class="NoBreak"> web.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">I wrote this book for you. But you—you’re writing this endi<span class="NoBreak">ng for</span><span class="NoBreak"> me.</span></p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
