<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>image-performance_draft-3-5</title>
		<link href="css/aba-image_performance.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="image-performance_draft-3-5" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer009">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-2" class="fm_title"><a id="_idTextAnchor001"></a>Introduction</h1>
			<p class="BodyFirstParagraph"><span class="ChapterIntro">That fact that you’re</span> reading this tells me something about you. It tells me that you’re different from the way I<span class="NoBreak"> once</span><span class="NoBreak"> was.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">I’ve been doing this—making websites—for a little more than a decade now. I like to think I’ve grown up some during that time. I don’t mind saying I took some things for granted<span class="NoBreak"> early</span><span class="NoBreak"> on.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">I’ve been incredibly fortunate, that much I’ve always known—and I’d appreciate it if you’d knock on wood for me here, reader. I’ve received way more than my fair share of help from friends, family, and total strangers alike. I’ve had—and have—the benefit of immense privilege. I’ve always tried my damnedest not to take any of <em class="Emphasis">that</em> fo<span class="NoBreak">r</span><span class="NoBreak"> granted.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">What I took for granted were the <em class="Emphasis">mechanics</em> of this work—at least at the start. If I made an element show up in the right place, on the right page, in the right browsers—no small feat, oftentimes—then my work was done. I’d never dig deeper than that surface level. I didn’t know what I didn’t know: that making a <code class="CodeInline">div</code> show up in roughly the same place as a square in a <span class="digitalName">.psd</span> was just the tip of the web-developmen<span class="NoBreak">t</span><span class="NoBreak"> iceberg.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Below the surface—that’s where the <em class="Emphasis">meaning</em> is. To build a page that can be easily parsed by assistive technologies is to contribute to a more inclusive web; to render a page more performantly is to broaden the web’s reach. To think too shallowly about a project means nudging the larger web in the same direction: toward something meant not for all, but for some; toward something meant only for those who experience it the <span class="NoBreak">way </span><span class="NoBreak"><em class="Emphasis">we</em></span><span class="NoBreak"> do.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">But I don’t think that’s who <em class="Emphasis">you</em> are. Not now—not today, as you read this. You’re ready to dive headfirst into a book about a subject that’s easy to take for granted: putting images o<span class="NoBreak">n the</span><span class="NoBreak"> web.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">At the risk of spoilers: any ol’ image format in an <code class="CodeInline">img</code> tag styled with <code class="CodeInline">max-width: 100%</code> will get the job done. If all you were after was a passing grade, you wouldn’t need to read any further. It might not be fast, it might not be accessible—it might not even <em class="Emphasis">work</em> in some browsing contexts, depending on a set of factors you’d never come to know. But the job would, technically, be done. “<em class="Emphasis">D</em> is for <em class="Emphasis">diploma</em>” was my constant refrain in hi<span class="NoBreak">gh</span><span class="NoBreak"> school.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">I can tell, though: scraping by isn’t enough for you. Maybe you’ve been at this long enough to gain a healthy respect for your element, long enough that you don’t take a single CSS property or markup pattern as a given. Maybe you’re just starting out, sharp-eyed and voracious, looking to learn all you can about the web’s inner workings. Maybe you’re somewhere in between, starting to wonder what details lie beneath the surface of your workplace and your medium,<span class="NoBreak"> the web. </span></p>
			<p class="Body">Regardless of where you are in your understanding of the web, you know you want to make it work <em class="Emphasis">better</em>. You want to play a part in building something faster, more reliable, and more<span class="NoBreak"> </span><span class="NoBreak">inclusive.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">If you believe that anything worth doing is worth doing well—hell, maybe even worth overdoing a little—then I’ve written this boo<span class="NoBreak">k for</span><span class="NoBreak"> you.</span></p>
			<h3 class="BHead">Makin<span class="NoBreak">g the</span><span class="NoBreak"> case</span></h3>
			<p class="BodyFirstParagraph">Listen: images do <em class="Emphasis">damage</em>. <a href="http://bkaprt.com/ip/00-01/"><span class="URL">The median webpage’s total transfer size</span></a> is huge: 1.7 MB, as of May 2018. Images alone accounted for roughly hal<span class="NoBreak">f of</span><span class="NoBreak"> that.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">It’s not hard to see how the trouble started. Ultra-high-resolution displays feel ubiquitous now—I’m using one to write this, and I have more than one on my person as we speak. With the advent of Retina displays came the need for Retina-ready image sources—and that was just the beginning. Retina on the iPhone 4 begat Retina HD on the iPhone 6–8, then <em class="Emphasis">Super</em> Retina HD Display on the iPhone X, and—if the pattern holds—we can expect Super Retina HD Display 2 Turbo: Tournament Edition in the near future. Of course, not to be outdone, manufacturers of countless mobile devices have continually upped the resolution stakes with each new iteration, in the exact<span class="NoBreak"> same</span><span class="NoBreak"> way.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">That means trouble, for us and for users. It’s no secret that there’s a direct relationship between a site’s performance and a user’s willingness to, well, <em class="Emphasis">use</em> it. Putting a bandwidth-obliterating wall of images—no matter how nice they are—between your users and the thing they came to your site to do will absolutely drive them away. <a href="http://bkaprt.com/ip/00-02/"><span class="URL">An experiment done by Etsy</span></a><span class="URL"> </span>a few years back saw an increased bounce rate of 12 percent from users on mobile devices when they added just 160 KB of images t<span class="NoBreak">o a page. </span></p>
			<p class="Body">This isn’t an isolated incident. Check out any of the statistics on <a href="https://wpostats.com/"><span class="URL">wpostats.com</span></a>, a site dedicated to collecting this data, and you’ll see the same results: from a business-case standpoint, you can very literally draw a line between users’ time and their<span class="NoBreak"> </span><span class="NoBreak">attention.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Web development is a game of inches. A stray comma breaks a build; a missing semicolon prevents a page from rendering. There’s a lot of resiliency built into the web platform, but, ultimately, it does what we developers tell it to do. In aggregate, the web isn’t a terribly opinionated platform—it isn’t hard to think of the technology itself a<span class="NoBreak">s</span><span class="NoBreak"> neutral.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">But nothing is ever neutral where people are involved—not technology, and not the tiny, seemingly inconsequential development decisions we make during the course of an average, borin<span class="NoBreak">g</span><span class="NoBreak"> workday.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">I can’t speak for you, reader, but in my day-to-day browsing context, an extra 160 KB here and there doesn’t even register. As developers, we tend to occupy a position of privilege when it comes to using the web we’re building. As a matter of occupational necessity, we have fast computers, modern browsers, and bandwidth to burn. That browsing privilege, unexamined, will skew what we build; unquestioned, it will lead us to unconscious bias. And our biases can have very real costs f<span class="NoBreak">or</span><span class="NoBreak"> others.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">As of this year, according to <a href="http://bkaprt.com/ip/00-03/"><span class="URL">Pew Research Center</span></a>, one in five Americans owns a smartphone, but doesn’t have a home broadband connection—up from 13 percent in 2015, and 8 percent in 2013. Likewise, a full 31 percent of adults making less than $30,000 a year have access to a smartphone, but no broadband connections in their homes, up from 20 percent in 2015. And 39 percent of adults with a high school diploma or less—a demographic I am part of—have a smartphone, but no home b<span class="NoBreak">roadband. </span></p>
			<p class="Body">These are all users who only experience the web by way of metered connections. Even users with an “unlimited” mobile data plan will have their connection speed throttled beyond a ce<span class="NoBreak">rtain</span><span class="NoBreak"> cap.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">To reduce the browsing experience for these users is to limit their options—<a href="http://bkaprt.com/ip/00-04/"><span class="URL">on the web and in their da</span><span class="NoBreak"><span class="URL">ily</span></span><span class="NoBreak"><span class="URL"> lives</span></span></a><span class="NoBreak">:</span></p>
			<blockquote class="ExtractFirstParagraph">Among Americans who have looked for work in the last two years, 79% utilized online resources in their most recent job search and 34% say these online resources were the most important tool availabl<span class="NoBreak">e to</span><span class="NoBreak"> them.</span></blockquote>
			<p class="Body">Very few of us are likely to have built a job-search website. But maybe we built the site a user visited the day before they lost their job, the one that drained their prepaid data plan. Maybe it was something that could be justified in an early meeting: it was a site about art, so users should expect heavy images. It was a shopping site, so we figured nobody would be using it on their phone. It was a site for games, a luxury—but maybe that user gave their phone to their kid because they needed a little peace and quiet on the day they lost their job—a little time to think about what t<span class="NoBreak">o do</span><span class="NoBreak"> next.</span></p>
			<p class="Body"><a href="http://bkaprt.com/ip/00-05/"><span class="URL">A study conducted by Ericsson (PDF)</span></a> in early 2016 found that delays in loading a mobile website caused, on average, a 38 percent increase in heart rate, and an increased stress level roughly on par with watching a horror movie or answering math problems. Honestly, that sounds right to me—you’d be hard-pressed to find anyone in any browsing context who isn’t frustrated by a seemingly never-ending loadin<span class="NoBreak">g</span><span class="NoBreak"> spinner.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">But I don’t mind admitting, here, to having recently experienced a <em class="Emphasis">uniquely</em> exasperating “loading” animation during the process of checking my bank account balance while standing in a supermarket checkout line. I ended up losing my race against the cashier—or at least, my phone did. I was fortunate enough to have a declined card not cost me much more than my pride (<em class="Emphasis">itself</em> a cost I’m not willing to foist upon anyone in a vulnerable position). But for a family that has to make every last dollar count, an unexpected overdraft fee could cost them a mea<span class="NoBreak">l as</span><span class="NoBreak"> well.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Building performant websites is a vast and ever-evolving discipline, ranging from tasks as large as compiling a web server to as small as optimizing the contents of a stylesheet. But it isn’t a stretch to say that, on any given project, optimizing image assets and their delivery may be the single largest performance optimization we can make. If you care about building a more performant web, images are the place<span class="NoBreak"> to</span><span class="NoBreak"> start.</span></p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
