<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>js4wd_ebook-10</title>
		<link href="css/ABA.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="js4wd_ebook-10" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer081">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-7" class="bm_title"><a id="_idTextAnchor007"></a>CONCLUSION</h1>
			<p class="BodyFirstParagraph">We’ve come a long way, from “Hello, world” to a script that accepts user input and changes the entire<span class="NoBreak"> page.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">This has been a hell of a lot of JavaScript over a short number of pages, so if you didn’t catch every single definition or punch every snippet of code into your console, don&apos;t sweat it. The goal was never absolute mastery over JavaScript, after all. As promised, we’ve only just barely scratched the surface of all the things JavaScript can do. And JavaScript is constantly evolving, like any other web standard—we can’t know it all, and we’ll never have to. To this day, I spend a lot of time searching the web for the best way to do <em class="Emphasis">X</em> or <em class="Emphasis">Y</em> with<span class="NoBreak"> JavaScript.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">But for all the exciting new APIs and features and powers over the browser that JavaScript grants us—or will grant us, someday—the basics won’t change. An array is an array; an event is an event. Anything you’ve read here is something you’ll be able to use, something you’ll be able to point to and recognize when you’re looking at a script someone else<span class="NoBreak"> wrote.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">You don’t suddenly have a special programmer-brain by reaching this point, because nobody does. That isn’t what makes a developer. What makes a developer is a curiosity, a willingness to learn, and maybe the drive to solve a puzzle or<span class="NoBreak"> two.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">If you’re here, reading this, you’re already on your<span class="NoBreak"> way.</span></p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
