<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>js4wd_ebook-12</title>
		<link href="css/ABA.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="js4wd_ebook-12" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer083">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-9" class="bm_title"><a id="_idTextAnchor009"></a>ACKNOWLEDGMENTS</h1>
			<p class="BodyFirstParagraph">Man, this section is something I never thought I’d end up writing. Same goes for the rest of the book, if I’m being honest. I guess I should’ve known better, though. I should’ve seen this all<span class="NoBreak"> coming.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Not because of <em class="Emphasis">me</em>—God, no—but because of the people who’ve helped me with my writing, with my speaking, with landing a job with a desk, with <em class="Emphasis">everything</em>. With those people supporting me—with their brilliance, their kindness, and their willingness to curse me out as needed—even a scrub like me had a chance to do something like<span class="NoBreak"> this.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Katel LeDû, Jeffrey Zeldman, and Jason Santa Maria: you’ve built something incredible in A Book Apart, and I am <em class="Emphasis">tremendously</em> honored to have been able to play some small part in it. I’ll never be able to thank you enough for this<span class="NoBreak"> opportunity.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Peter Richardson and Mike Pennisi, I can’t imagine two better people to put to rest the haunting feeling that I’d flubbed a term, dropped a semicolon, or—horror of horrors—mistaken <code class="CodeInline">undefined</code> for a function. I owe you one, for every “actually” I don’t hear after this goes to<span class="NoBreak"> print.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Erin Kissane, without you involved, there was no way I could’ve worded goodly enough for book-making. Knowing that you would be my lead editor, after admiring so much of your work over the years—it might’ve been the first time I felt like I could actually pull this thing<span class="NoBreak"> off.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">To the crews at Bocoup and Filament Group, past and present: I wouldn’t have had anything to write about if I hadn’t been fortunate enough to learn from so many brilliant and responsible JavaScripters. I only hope I’ve managed to do you<span class="NoBreak"> proud.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">LMM, it is rad that you edited my book. It is radder that you are my girlfriend. It is radder still that you <em class="Emphasis">remained</em> my girlfriend, y’know, despite having to work with me on my book. I couldn’t have done this without you. I couldn’t do damn near anything without you. Thank you for so, so much; for<span class="NoBreak"> everything.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">Lastly, hey, Ma—remember the time Dad told me to “get something published” for him, a couple years back? Between that and “we should fix up an old bike someday,” he’s <em class="Emphasis">still</em> a pain in the<span class="NoBreak"> ass.</span></p>
			<p class="Body">I guess one out of two ain’t<span class="NoBreak"> </span><span class="NoBreak">bad.</span></p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
